# Nuitka Release 2.0 (草稿)

## Bug Fixes

* Fix, workaround for private functions as Qt slots not having names mangled. Fixed in 1.9.1 already.
* Fix, when using Nuitka with `pdm` it was not detected as using pip packages. Fixed in 1.9.1 already.
* Fix, for `pydantic` our lazy loader parser didn’t handle all cases properly yet. Fixed in 1.9.1 already.
* Standalone: Added data files for `pyocd` package. Fixed in 1.9.1 already.
* Standalone: Added DLL for `cmsis_pack_manager` package. Fixed in 1.9.1 already.
* Standalone: Fix, the specs expanded at run time in some causes could contain random characters. Fixed in 1.9.2 already.
* Fix, `{"a":b,<span> ...}.get("b")` could crash at runtime. Fixed in 1.9.2 already.
* Standalone: Added data files for `pyproj` package. Fixed in 1.9.2 already.
* Standalone: Added more metadata requirements for `transformers` package. Fixed in 1.9.2 already.
* Plugins: Fix, could crash when including packages from the command line, if they had yaml configuration that requires checking the using module, e.g. anti-bloat work. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Standalone: Added support for `delphifmx` package. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Android: Fix, cannot exclude `libz` on that platform, it’s not a full Linux OS. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Standalone: Add needed DLLs for `bitsandbytes` package. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Windows: Fix, newer `joblib` was not working anymore. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Windows: Fix, could crash when working with junctions that switch drives. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Fix, was crashing with poetry installed environments. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Standalone: Added support for newer `chromadb` package. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Fix, could crash in report creation on modules excluded that were asked via command line for inclusion. Fixed in 1.9.3 already.
* Anti-Bloat: Fix for newer `streamlit`, it was causing `SyntaxError` for the compilation. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Arch: Added support for their OS release file location too. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Windows: Fix, MinGW64 doesn’t accept chinese module names a C source files. Use short paths for these instead. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Standalone: Added missing DLL for `libusb_package` package. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Fix, properly skip directories with non-module top level names when trying to find top level packages of distributions. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Fix, avoid memory leak bug in triggered by `rich` package. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Python3.11+: Fix, didn’t detect non-keywords on star dict calls in some cases. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Fix, avoid crashes due to unrecognized installers on macOS and Windows, some packages that are built via legacy fallbacks of certain pip versions do not leave any indication of their origin at all. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Windows: Fix, need to indicate that the program is long path aware or else it cannot work with the paths. Fixed in 1.9.4 already.
* Debian: The `extern` namespace might not exist in the `pkg_resources` module, make the code work with versions that remove it and use the proper external package names then. Fixed in 1.9.5 already.
* Compatibility: Fix, need to also have `.exists` method in our files reader objects. Fixed in 1.9.5 already.
* macOS: Fix, PyQt5 standalone can fail due to `libqpdf` too.

## New Features

* Windows: Added support for using junctions in the Python environment, these are used e.g. when installing via `scoop`. Added in 1.9.2 already.
* Added option `--cf-protection` to select the control flow protection mode for the GCC compiler and deviate from default values of some environments to less strict values.
* Reports: Added output filename to report, mainly intended for automatically locating the compilation result independent of options used.
* Plugins: Now detects modified yaml files and points to checking them which will after successful checks update their checksum. This should make it less likely to get them wrong.
* Windows: Detect when we create too large compiled executables. There is a limit of 2GB that you might e.g. violate by attempting to embed very large files. This doesn’t cover onefile yet.

## Optimization

* Avoid late specialization for `None` returns in generators and do it during tree building already, to remove noise.
* Standalone: Avoid including `.pyx` files when scanning for data files, these are code files too, in this case source files that are definitely unused most of the time.
* Anti-Bloat: Avoid using `triton` in `torch` package in more cases. Added in 1.9.2 already.
* Anti-Bloat: Avoid using `pytest` in `knetworkx` package in more cases. Added in 1.9.2 already.
* Anti-Bloat: Avoid using `IPython` in `distributed` package. Added in 1.9.3 already.
* Anti-Bloat: Avoid using `dask` in `skimage`. Added in 1.9.3 already.
* Anti-Bloat: Avoid using `triton` in the `bitsandbytes` package. Added in 1.9.3 already.

## Organisational

* Project: Added Code of Conduct. Adapted from the one used in the Linux kernel.
* Added `.gitignore` to build folder that just causes these folders to be ignored by git.
* User Manual: Added information on how to debug fork bombs from created binaries.
* Debugging: The output of `--experimental=--report-refcounts` that we use to show leaks of compiled time objects at program exit, now counts and reports on functions, generator objects and compiled cells as well.
* Quality: Warnings from `yamllint` not disabled are errors. These were only output, but didn’t cause the autoformat to error exit yet.
* UI: Enhanced formatting of info traces, drop the `:INFO` part that shouts, and reserve that for errors and warnings. Also format info messages to make sure they fit into the line.
* UI: Changed `--show-source-changes` to accept module pattern to make it easier to only see the ones currently being worked on. To get the old behavior of showing everything, use `*` as a pattern.
* UI: Allow using `~` in data files source path and expand it properly.
* Quality: Enhanced schema for our package configuration yaml files to detect suffixes with leading dots, that is not wanted. These now fail checks, but we also tolerate them now.
* Quality: Check module names used in the package configuration yaml files for validity, this catches e.g. trailing dots.
* Quality: Make sure to really prefer `clang-format` from Visual Code and MSVC for formatting C code, otherwise a system installed one could be used that gives slightly different outputs.
* Scons: Allow disabling to enforce no warnings for C compilation
  Currently only for gcc, where we need it until loop tracing is better, we can now use `--experimental=allow-c-warnings` options to make `--debug` work for some known currently unavoidable warnings.

## Cleanups

* User Manual was proof read and had a bunch of wordings improved.
* Cleanup, avoid “unused but set variable” warning from the C compiler for hard some forms of hard imports.

## Tests

* When locating the standalone binary created, use a compilation report and resolve the path specified there. This allows macOS app bundles to be used in these tests as well.
* Made the PyQt tests executable on macOS too adding necessary options.
* Added reference test case for unpacking into a list, this was not covered but under suspect of reference leaking which turns out to be wrong.

## Summary

This release is not done yet.
