# Nuitka 2.1 (草稿)

## Bug Fixes

* Windows: Using older MSVC before 14.3 was not working anymore. Fixed in 2.0.1 already.
* Compatibility: The `dill-compat` plugin didn’t work for functions with closure variables taken. Fixed in 2.0.1 already.

  ```python title="dll_loader.py"
  def get_local_closure(b):
    def _local_multiply(x, y):
      return x * y + b
    return _local_multiply

  fn = get_local_closure(1)
  fn2 = dill.loads(dill.dumps(fn))
  print(fn2(2, 3))
  ```

* Windows: Fix, sometimes `kernel32.dll` is actually reported as a dependency, remove assertion against that. Fixed in 2.0.1 already.
* UI: The help output for `--output-filename` was not formatted properly. Fixed in 2.0.1 already.

## New Features

* Plugins: Added support for `constants` in Nuitka package configurations. We can now using `when` clauses, define variable values to be defined, e.g. to specify the DLL suffix, or the DLL path, based on platform dependent properties.
* Plugins: Make `relative_path`, `suffix`, `prefix` in DLL Nuitka package configurations allowed to be an expression rather than just a constant value.

## Optimization

* Scalability: The code trying avoid merge traces of merge traces, and to instead flatten merge traces was only handling part of these correctly, and correcting it reduced optimization time for some functions from infinite to instant. Less memory usage should also come out of this, even where this was not affecting compile time as much. Added in 2.0.1 already.

## Organisational

* Quality: Added auto-format of PNG and JPEG images. This aims at making it simpler to add images to our repositories, esp. Nuitka Website. This now makes `optipng` and `jpegoptim` calls as necessary. Previously this was manual steps for the website to be applied.
* Release: Remove month from manpage generation, that’s only noise in diffs.

## Summary

This release is not done yet.
